as a warm-up to today's lecture let's do
a little dynamic method selection puzzle
just to remind ourselves of how all of
this works so let's suppose we have two
classes we have here dog which implants
bark and we have show dog which extends
dog and override the bark method so here
basically we see that every show dog is
a dog and every dog is an object and
remember that every single type out
there is a subtype of object if it
doesn't extend something else okay so
what you're supposed to do now is for
each of these assignments in this code
decide if it causes a compile time error
and then assuming that we get rid of
those errors consider for each call to
bark figure out is it dog whose bark is
called show dog whose bark is called for
three a syntax error happens because of
runtime type checking and reminder the
rules actually are pretty simple right
so if you started getting nervous about
this and you're like gosh it feels like
there's so many rules you have to
convince your rule set and this is more
or less the whole rule set so we say
that the compiler allows a memory box to
hold any subtype so in other words if
it's a list it can hold a list s lists
or lists or whatever else as long as
it's a subtype the compiler allows calls
when it thinks is this line of code
valid the compiler it does it based on
the static type and then finally the non
the in the case that one of the
non-static methods in your class is
overridden then it's going to be
selected at runtime based on the dynamic
type that is the type of the actual
object so remember that every time you
have a variable it is really just a
pointer to something else out there in
space and the dynamic type is whatever
type this actual thing is the thing that
got created using nuke
now everything else that you might want
to do is based on static type and then
includes overloaded methods though I'll
note here there are no overloaded
methods in this problem on the left and
if you want a little more practice with
those you can see the discussion
worksheets or last previous lecture we
had one little overloading trick so
think about this problem here I'll be
waiting for you to answer
okay let's go through each line of code
here so first we start with this top
line we say new show dog more two more
Corgi some parameters and this produces
a show dog and so the question is can we
put a show dog in an object memory box
so here's the box it can point at
anything that's an object so we ask
ourselves the question is a show dog an
object yes a show dog is an object so
this is allowed we now try to take our
object memory pointer cast it as a show
dog and store that in the show dog box
so in this case we say okay I'm the
compiler what's the static type of o2
it's object
what's the static type of show dog and
parentheses in front of o2 that's show
dog and then the static type obviously
if this whole thing is simply going to
be show dog so in that case can we put a
show dog and a show dog box well of
course
so this one this line runs just fine
next we do SDX bark now in this case we
know that the actual thing that got made
here's Mortimer whenever we do SDX bark
we say first the compiler says do show
dogs have a bark method yes they do
okay so I will call the bark method and
in this case since the show dog actually
does override the bark method and the
show dog method gets run so it works
fine show dog dog bark okay next up now
let's try and cast our object as a dog
so the static type of o2 is object the
static type of dog in parentheses o2 is
dog so the compiler says is a dog a dog
yes so it allows this now we do DX dot
bark to decide whether or not this is
allowed the compiler says yes it is
because of dog has a bark okay good and
then when we call the bark method well
we go to the actual object and we say in
the hierarchy like if we go to that what
is the dynamic type of Mortimer here
it's show dog and so if show dog
overrides bark with the duck which it
does then we call bark okay barking
happens in a show dog way now we get
here so in this case first we'll play
compiler
we do Oh - what's the static type of Oh
to still object
what's the static type of dog and
parenthesis OH - that is dog so the
compiler says can dogs bark yes so we
allow it and then in this case again we
use the dynamic type and show dog barks
okay
now one little thing I want to say about
casting that's occasionally confusing
putting something in print a type in
parenthesis this casting operation does
not have any lasting effect it is only
you can think of it as a way to say
compiler for this expression only think
of this as a dog
it doesn't somehow change the static
type of ot o - sometimes occasionally a
lab assistant or a TA or even I will
sloppily say something like it changes
the static type but actually it doesn't
change anything
it just says temporarily treat this like
a dog for the purposes of type checking
that's it yeah all right next up we take
O - great static type is object then the
static type of this right hand side is
dog and to decide whether or not this is
allowed we say is it dog and object this
is actually a lot like our first line
well indeed a dog is an object so it's
allowed to be placed in the object box
and that works next we say oh three bark
now you're the compiler and you have to
think can objects bark you only use the
static type to decide what is allowed
and so in this case that line of code it
will fail and that's a good Pilar error
so to summarize there's only one
compiler error as this last line and in
every single case where it barks
successfully it's always the show dog
bark okay for here so that's it for this
little puzzle and again there are many
more of these out there
so to summarize before we get going with
today's lecture I do want to mention one
thing for those of you taking the class
at Berkeley who are gonna take exams you
may find questions on all 61b exams
worksheets or whatever else they
consider what if a subclass has
variables that have the same name as a
superclass so for example maybe the dog
class as a size and the show dog class
also has the size okay another type of
question what if a subclass has a static
method with the same signature as a
superclass method so maybe we have max
dog and both dog and in show dog that's
another type of question
my aunt asked and I guess I'll mention
briefly for static methods this does not
count as overriding overwriting only
applies to non static methods okay
here's a couple of both of these are
kind of problems you might see now the
good news is these two practices are
called hiding and I will not teach them
in this class and the reason it's good
news is it's confusing
okay I just I decided not to teach this
ever again and 61b
and I find it tedious so first off it's
bad style you should never write code
that does this there's no reason to do
it if you have done this you have made
your code bad in my opinion like as far
as I know there's literally no reason to
do this and I think it should be a
syntax error personally so it's awful no
reason to do it in I find that while the
rules are simple we only have to add a
couple maybe I think we have to add just
one more bullet point to the list of
rules I've just found that it's more
trouble than it's worth people find it
very confusing and last year I decided
nope it's gone from 61b
but if you do want to learn it if you
want to know how this works there is a
tutorial where they talk about the rules
for resolving hiding but again in my
opinion this should have been a syntax
error so if in any old problems you see
that a subclass has variables so the
same name as a superclass you ignore
that problem right I mean it's just not
part of our curriculum
it's basically why should I teach you
how to resolve something that's a bad
idea
let's say this was a class on horse
training you know I don't talk about ok
the day where if you do manage to punch
your horse to death like here's how to
bury right that's just it's not part of
a good horsemanship class like that's
just I don't know not not something I
think we should be learning about ok
that's it in terms of this extra bonus
video let's get going with the real
stuff